[New Concept]: Array (#515)
exercism/crystal: concepts/array/about.md

```crystal
[1, 2, 3].class # => Array(Int32)
```

## Multi type Arrays

Even if mentioned earlier about arrays being a collection of elements of a specific type, you can create an array with multiple types through the use of [union types][union-types].
This makes so that the array can contain elements of any of the types specified in the union type.
Crystal will infer the type of the array from the elements.

```crystal
[1, "2", 3.0] # => [1, "2", 3.0]

[1, "2", 3.0].class # => Array(Int32 | Float64 | String)
```

## Add an element to an array

To add an element to an array, use the [`<<` (append) operator][append].

```crystal
[1, 2, 3] << 4 # => [1, 2, 3, 4]
```

It is important that the type of the element you want to add is the same as the type of the array, if it is not an error will be raised.

```crystal
numbers : Array(Int32 | Float64) = [1, 2, 3]
numbers << 4.0
numbers # => [1, 2, 3, 4.0]
numbers << "5" # => Error: no overload matches 'Array(Int32 | Float64)#<<' with type String
```

## Size of an Array

As with `String`, can you get the size of an array by using the [`size`][size] method.

```crystal
[1, 2, 3].size # => 3
```

## Empty Arrays

> When creating an empty array, can the compiler not infer which type the array is built of.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When creating an empty array, the compiler cannot infer the type of the array.
```

Therefore, you need to specify the type of the array.

> This can be done by either specifying the type of the array or by using the `of` keyword.
> Or by using the array initializer syntax, which is: `Array(T).new`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This can be done by specifying the type of the array, by using the `of` keyword, or by using the array initializer syntax, which is: `Array(T).new`.
```

```crystal
[] of (Int32 | Float64 | String)    # => []
Array(Int32 | Float64 | String).new # => []
```

## Accessing Elements

> As with `String`, can you access elements in an array by using the [`[]` (index) operator][index] and giving it the index of the element you want to access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As with `String`, you can access elements in an array by using the [`[]` (index) operator][index] and giving it the index of the element you want to access.
```

```crystal
[1, 2, 3][0] # => 1
```

It is also possible to access elements by using a range.

```crystal
[1, 2, 3][0..1] # => [1, 2]
```

## Create an array from a range

To create an array from a range, use the [`to_a` method][to_a].
This can be useful when you want to create an array of numbers.

```crystal
(1..3).to_a # => [1, 2, 3]
```

## Create an array from a string

To create an array from a string, use the [`split`][split] method.
This lets you split a string into an array of strings by using a delimiter.

```crystal
"1,2,3".split(",") # => ["1", "2", "3"]
```

It is also possible to get an array of characters from a string by using the [`chars`][chars] method.

```crystal
"123".chars # => ['1', '2', '3']
```

To convert an array of `Char` or `String` to a `String` you can use the [`join`][join] method which takes a delimiter as an argument.

```crystal
['1', '2', '3'].join(".") # => "1.2.3"
```

## Deleting element from an array

> When wanting to delete an element from the end of an array, you can use [`pop`][pop] method which takes an optional argument specifying how many elements to remove from the end of the array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you want to delete an element from the end of an array, you can use [`pop`][pop] method which takes an optional argument specifying how many elements to remove from the end of the array.
```

The method returns the element that was removed.

```crystal
numbers = [1, 2, 3]
[1, 2, 3].pop # => 3
numbers       # => [1, 2]
```

> When wanting to delete an element of a specific index from an array, you can use the [`delete_at`][delete_at] method which takes the index of the element to remove as an argument.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you want to delete an element of a specific index from an array, you can use the [`delete_at`][delete_at] method which takes the index of the element to remove as an argument.
```

```crystal
numbers = [1, 2, 3]
[1, 2, 3].delete_at(1) # => 2
numbers                # => [1, 3]
```

## Modifying values in an array

> When wanting to modify an element of a specific index from an array, you can use the [`[]=` (index assign) operator][index-assign] which takes the index of the element to modify and the new value as arguments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you want to modify an element of a specific index from an array, you can use the [`[]=` (index assign) operator][index-assign] which takes the index of the element to modify and the new value as arguments.
```

```crystal
numbers = [1, 2, 3]
numbers[1] = 4
numbers # => [1, 4, 3]
```

## Array pointer

~~~~exercism/advanced
Arrays being mutable gives some properties that are not available for immutable data types/structures.
One of these properties is that arrays are passed by reference.
This means that when passing an array to a method, the method will be able to modify the array.
This has the benefit of not having to create a new array which gives better performance.
For example when working with `String` every time you modify a string a new string is created which can be expensive.

But this can come with some behavior which is good to be aware of.

```crystal
numbers = [1, 2, 3]
other_numbers = numbers
other_numbers << 4
other_numbers # => [1, 2, 3, 4]
numbers       # => [1, 2, 3, 4]
```

> As you can see even though we only modified `other_numbers` so was `numbers` also modified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As you can see even though we only modified `other_numbers`, `numbers` was also modified.
```
